notes.md, before:

# 181211 - spiral dataset

what i have done so far
- found 6-layer network via sigopt which optimizes training error
- this is without weight decay or hessreg

what to do now
- fix network architecture
- experiments: hessreg alone, wdec alone, both
- variants: noisy/nonnoisy dataset

## procedure
1. minimize test xent by optimizing learning rate, hidden units, and speccoef (we want to get best possible hessian performance). This was done in `hess-hid-noise2-opttest` https://app.sigopt.com/experiment/56548
2. freeze learning rate and architecture from step 1, manually evaluate with speccoef=0 to make sure that hessreg really contributes. **result: it does indeed**
3. change the random seed to see if we have overfitted to test set 
3. keep speccoef off and optimize for wdeccoef at these settings to see if wdec can regularize better. 
4. turn both speccoef (at prev optimized value) and wdec on to see if they both add value. 

**Results** There is clearly a different in the generalization gap and visualization between the hessian and nonhessian regularized networks. It holds up to some extent in terms of reproducibility and not overfitting to the test set

### experiments
| objective | params | links | notes |
|---|---|---|---|
|train|lr+hidden| https://app.sigopt.com/experiment/57321|
|test|lr+hidden| https://app.sigopt.com/experiment/57417|
|gap|lr+hidden+spec| https://app.sigopt.com/experiment/56545 | 
|test|lr+hidden+spec| https://app.sigopt.com/experiment/56548 https://www.comet.ml/wronnyhuang/sharpmin-spiral/a68ca2333bf748d3a73e643941568acb/images| 
|-|manual| https://www.comet.ml/wronnyhuang/sharpmin-spiral/f60f42a67a8f4669910bc0424c1e1c36/images https://www.comet.ml/wronnyhuang/sharpmin-spiral/f04eb57928424214baca0f5288242691/images https://www.comet.ml/wronnyhuang/sharpmin-spiral/573f22a1f6c14afda4fd0e66b1d136f5/images | 
|-|speccoef=0| https://www.comet.ml/wronnyhuang/sharpmin-spiral/906b75d196a8485b8080ad03d3a98297/images https://www.comet.ml/wronnyhuang/sharpmin-spiral/73ce3cb47e13482d92f4468b511f7fe4/images https://www.comet.ml/wronnyhuang/sharpmin-spiral/80a05f61cf07438dbf290f29e11ca6f6 |
|-|manual+diffseed| https://www.comet.ml/wronnyhuang/sharpmin-spiral/da6fa9cc4862406da5c2498d47d16b57/images https://www.comet.ml/wronnyhuang/sharpmin-spiral/a6263092534a438a8ddb8ec0671bca37/images
|gap|lr+hidden+spec| https://app.sigopt.com/experiment/57456/analysis |

## alternative
 maximize test performance as function of speccoef, wdeccoef, or both, along with allowing lr and hidden parameters to vary as well.
https://app.sigopt.com/experiment/56548
https://app.sigopt.com/experiment/56497
https://app.sigopt.com/experiment/56477

**Results** all achieve about the same test xent, meaning that hess and wdec do the same thing and dont additively benefit one another
  - wdec https://www.comet.ml/wronnyhuang/sharpmin-spiral/0e8f299ff4314e609cfc922d6e2460a4/images
  - hess https://www.comet.ml/wronnyhuang/sharpmin-spiral/9598953e985042979ff8b76a9031163a/images https://www.comet.ml/wronnyhuang/sharpmin-spiral/abcda8c208c84e01b8e1c696130f5333/images
  - both https://www.comet.ml/wronnyhuang/sharpmin-spiral/bdea5d6a16e34ec69379c43a8a9b9624/images




## other observations
- when we constrain the speccoef to <0 and optimize hyperparams for maximum generalization gap, the optimal speccoef that is found is 0. An earlier experiment also corroborates these results.
https://app.sigopt.com/experiment/57456/analysis
https://app.sigopt.com/experiment/56529/analysis
- max gap achieves perfect train acc and 73% test acc https://www.comet.ml/wronnyhuang/sharpmin-spiral/6d196037f02d4d3589369b3a2eec154a/images unfortunately this is achieved at speccoef=0, not negative
-

Commit message:

just started working but now messed it up a bit. saving this checkpoint before i revert

notes.md, after:

# Swiss roll dataset

what i have done so far
- found 6-layer network via sigopt which optimizes training error
- this is without weight decay or hessreg

what to do now
- fix network architecture
- experiments: hessreg alone, wdec alone, both
- variants: noisy/nonnoisy dataset

## procedure
1. minimize test xent by optimizing learning rate, hidden units, and speccoef (we want to get best possible hessian performance). This was done in `hess-hid-noise2-opttest` https://app.sigopt.com/experiment/56548
2. freeze learning rate and architecture from step 1, manually evaluate with speccoef=0 to make sure that hessreg really contributes. **result: it does indeed**
3. change the random seed to see if we have overfitted to test set 
3. keep speccoef off and optimize for wdeccoef at these settings to see if wdec can regularize better. 
4. turn both speccoef (at prev optimized value) and wdec on to see if they both add value. 

**Results** There is clearly a different in the generalization gap and visualization between the hessian and nonhessian regularized networks. It holds up to some extent in terms of reproducibility and not overfitting to the test set

### experiments
| objective | params | links | notes |
|---|---|---|---|
|train|lr+hidden| https://app.sigopt.com/experiment/57321|
|test|lr+hidden| https://app.sigopt.com/experiment/57417|
|gap|lr+hidden+spec| https://app.sigopt.com/experiment/56545 | 
|test|lr+hidden+spec| https://app.sigopt.com/experiment/56548 https://www.comet.ml/wronnyhuang/sharpmin-spiral/a68ca2333bf748d3a73e643941568acb/images| 
|-|manual| https://www.comet.ml/wronnyhuang/sharpmin-spiral/f60f42a67a8f4669910bc0424c1e1c36/images https://www.comet.ml/wronnyhuang/sharpmin-spiral/f04eb57928424214baca0f5288242691/images https://www.comet.ml/wronnyhuang/sharpmin-spiral/573f22a1f6c14afda4fd0e66b1d136f5/images | 
|-|speccoef=0| https://www.comet.ml/wronnyhuang/sharpmin-spiral/906b75d196a8485b8080ad03d3a98297/images https://www.comet.ml/wronnyhuang/sharpmin-spiral/73ce3cb47e13482d92f4468b511f7fe4/images https://www.comet.ml/wronnyhuang/sharpmin-spiral/80a05f61cf07438dbf290f29e11ca6f6 |
|-|manual+diffseed| https://www.comet.ml/wronnyhuang/sharpmin-spiral/da6fa9cc4862406da5c2498d47d16b57/images https://www.comet.ml/wronnyhuang/sharpmin-spiral/a6263092534a438a8ddb8ec0671bca37/images
|gap|lr+hidden+spec| https://app.sigopt.com/experiment/57456/analysis |

## alternative
 maximize test performance as function of speccoef, wdeccoef, or both, along with allowing lr and hidden parameters to vary as well.
https://app.sigopt.com/experiment/56548
https://app.sigopt.com/experiment/56497
https://app.sigopt.com/experiment/56477

**Results** all achieve about the same test xent, meaning that hess and wdec do the same thing and dont additively benefit one another
  - wdec https://www.comet.ml/wronnyhuang/sharpmin-spiral/0e8f299ff4314e609cfc922d6e2460a4/images
  - hess https://www.comet.ml/wronnyhuang/sharpmin-spiral/9598953e985042979ff8b76a9031163a/images https://www.comet.ml/wronnyhuang/sharpmin-spiral/abcda8c208c84e01b8e1c696130f5333/images
  - both https://www.comet.ml/wronnyhuang/sharpmin-spiral/bdea5d6a16e34ec69379c43a8a9b9624/images

## other observations
- when we constrain the speccoef to <0 and optimize hyperparams for maximum generalization gap, the optimal speccoef that is found is 0. An earlier experiment also corroborates these results.
https://app.sigopt.com/experiment/57456/analysis
https://app.sigopt.com/experiment/56529/analysis
- max gap achieves perfect train acc and 73% test acc https://www.comet.ml/wronnyhuang/sharpmin-spiral/6d196037f02d4d3589369b3a2eec154a/images unfortunately this is achieved at speccoef=0, not negative
- the spectral radius is definitely going down on the test set when speccoef turned on. from 1000's to about 100

## why doesnt negative speccoef work?
- *Added warmupPeriod and warmupStart as hyperparameters indicating when speccoef starts ramping up and for how long. also make the rampup quadratic.*
- *Added max grad norm clipping to make training more stable*

We first train again for min xent and max gen_gap in two separate experiments. There was no substantial improvement in either despite the warmup hyperparams that we put in.
https://app.sigopt.com/experiment/57522
https://app.sigopt.com/experiment/57521

We then fix the architecture to that of the optimal from the minxent experiment, and now only tune the speccoef and lr, to maximizie gap. _Didnt work_
https://app.sigopt.com/experiment/57455

Now taking the learning rate from the run that achieved the best gen gap. Verified that it has good train/test accuracy. Doing some manual hyperparam search.
Playing with the speccoef and learning rate drop amount.

_Success_ Found gen gap to increase while train/acc stays the same or increases slightly while test/acc goes down the moment that speccoef is turned on.
  - Before success: https://www.comet.ml/wronnyhuang/sharpmin-spiral/6d71d1d740994ce7b0db8a8cc910302f/code
  - First success: https://www.comet.ml/wronnyhuang/sharpmin-spiral/63ae874b727e44018e7646929f63a053/code
  - Turned out the key was reducing the learning rate (factor of 10 more) and speccoef (factor of 100).
